# How to write 5 tips for the optimal code in the V8 engine

> For the original text, please refer to [here] (httts://blog.sessionStack.com/how-javascript-works-nSide-the-V8-EIPS-HOW-Write-optimized-AC089E62b12e) , Slightly deleted, this article uses [Knowledge Sharing Copy Signature 4.0 International License Agreement] (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) Sharing, by [trOLAND] (https://github.com/troland) Essence

** This is the second chapter of JavaScript's working principle. **

This chapter will penetrate the internal structure of the Google V8 engine. We will also provide a few tips for how to write better JavaScript code- [sessionStack] (https://www.sessionStack.com/) The best practice followed by the development team.

## Overview

A JavaScript engine is a program or an interpreter running JavaScript code. A JavaScript engine can be implemented as a standard interpreter or an instant compiler. The instant compiler will compile JavaScript into some form of bytecode.

The following is a series of popular projects to implement the JavaScript engine:

_[** v8 **] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/v8_%28javascript_engine%29) -The is written by Google open source in C ++ language
_[** rhin **] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/rhino_%28javascript_engine%29) -Dozoed by the Mozilla Foundation, it is developed with Java.
_[** SpiderMonkey **] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/spidermonkey_%28javascript_engine%29) -The first -generation JavaScript engine provides technical support from the web browser before, and now drives Firefox.
_[** javascriptcore **] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/javascriptcore) -open source, promoted in Nitro's name, and developed by Apple as Safari.
_[** kjs **] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/kjs_%28kde%29) -KDE engine, was developed by Harri Porten as the KONQUEROR browser of KDE project.
_[** chakra ** (jscript9)] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/chakra_%28jscript_engine%29) -ep
_[** chakra ** (javascript)] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/chakra_%28javascript_engine%29) -Microsoft Edge
_[** nashorn **] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/nashorn_%28javascript_engine%29) -written as part of OpenJDK, written by Oracle Java language and Tool Group. \*[** Jerryscript **] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/jerryscript) -a lightweight IoT engine.

## v8 engine origin

The V8 engine is opened by Google and is written in C ++ language. Google Chrome has built -in engine. The V8 engine is different from other engines, and it is also used in the popular Node.js.

! [] (./ assets/1_akkve3qmn_zqmezsj16oxg.png)

At first V8 was designed to optimize the operating performance of JavaScript in the web browser. In order to achieve faster execution speed, V8 converts JavaScript code into more efficient machine code instead of interpreters. It compiles the JavaScript code into a machine code by implementing an instant compiler in the execution stage, just like many modern JavaScript engines such as Spidermonkey or Rhino (Mozilla). The main difference is that the V8 does not produce byte code or any intermediate code.

## v8 once owned two compilers

Before the birth of V8 5.9 (early 2017), the engine had two compilers:

- Full-CodeGen-A simple and fast compiler is used to produce simple and relatively slow running machine code.
- Crankshaft -A more complicated (instant) optimized compiler is used to generate efficient code.

Multiple threads are also used inside the V8 engine:

- The main thread is doing what you expect -grab the code and execute it after compiling
- There are independent threads to compile the code, so the main thread can keep execution. At the same time, the former is optimizing the code
- A thread used for performance detection will tell which method we spend too much time when we run in order to allow Crankshaft to optimize these code
- Several threads are used to handle the cleanup of garbage recychers.

When the JavaScript code was performed for the first time, the V8 used Full-CodeGen to directly interpret the parsed JavaScript code as a machine code, and there was no conversion in the middle. This makes it start to run the machine code very quickly. Note that the V8 does not use the intermediate bytecode to indicate, so that there is no need to interpret.

After the code has been executed for a period of time, the performance detector thread has collected enough data to tell Crankshaft which method can be optimized.

Next, the Crankshaft code optimization began in another thread. It transforms JavaScript syntax abstraction tree into a high -level static single assignment of ** Hydrogen **, which is represented by the layer and try to optimize the Hydrogen chart. Most code optimization occurs on this layer.

## Neilian

The first optimization method is to pay as many codes as possible in advance. The inner conjunction refers to the process of replacing the call address (the line code that the function is called) to the text of the call function. This simple step makes the next code optimization more meaningful.

! [] (./ assets/0_RRRGTDRFLGEHUR7U.png)

## hidden class

JavaScript is a prototype -based language: there will be no creation and objects when cloning. JavaScript is also a dynamic programming language, which means that after it is instantiated, it can be arbitrarily added or removed.

Most JavaScript interpreters use the structure of the dictionary (based on hash functions) to store the memory address of the attribute value of the object attribute in memory. This structure makes it more time -consuming to obtain attribute values ​​than non -dynamic programming languages ​​such as Java or C# in JavaScript. In Java, all object attributes are determined by a fixed object layout before compiling and cannot be dynamically added or deleted at runtime (well, C# has a dynamic type, which is another topic). Therefore, attribute values ​​(pointers to these attributes) are stored in memory in the form of continuous buffer, and there are fixed displacements between each other. It can easily calculate the length of the displacement based on the attribute type, but it is impossible in JavaScript because it can change the attribute type when runtime.

Because the memory address of the memory of the object attribute in memory is very inefficient, the V8 uses a hidden class. The hidden work principle is similar to the fixed object layout (class) used in the Java language, except for them to be created during runtime. Now, let's see what they are practical:

`` `
function point (x, y) {
this.x = x;
this.y = y;
}

var P1 = New Point (1, 2);
`` `

Once the "New Point (1,2)" call occurs, the V8 will create a hidden class called "C0".

! [] (./ assets/1_pvnirmzib9iaz5sw28aixa.png)

Because it has not created attributes for the class Point, "C0" is empty.

Once the first statement "this.x = x" starts to execute (in the Point function), the V8 will create a second hidden class based on "C0". "C1" describes the memory address of the X attribute (relative to the object pointer). In this example, "X" is stored in the displacement 0, which means that when the point objects in the memory are regarded as a continuous buffer, the starter is consistent with the attribute "x". V8 will use "class conversion" to update "C0", indicating that if the attribute "x" is added into the point object, the hidden class will be converted from "C0" to "C1". The hidden classes of the following targets are now "C1".

! [] (./ assets/1_qsvue3snzd9ABYXCCCG6sgw.png)

_Whenever the object adds new attributes, use the conversion path to update the old hidden class into a new hidden class. Hidden class conversion is important because they can share the hidden classes in the same way. If the two objects share a hidden class and the two objects add the same attributes, the conversion will ensure that the two objects receive the same new hidden class and all optimized code will include these new hidden classes. _

When running the "this.y = y" statement, the same process will be repeated (or after the "this.x = x" statement).

A hidden class called "C2" was created, and a class conversion was added into "C1" that the attribute "y" was added into the point object (already possessed "X"). C2 ", then the hidden class of the target will be updated to" C2 ".

! [] (./ Assets/1_SPJ8V7GWIVXZZTAZQVPTA.png))

The hidden class conversion depends on the order of the attribute being added. Look at the following code fragment:

```
function Point(x, y) {
  this.x = x;
  this.y = y;
}

var p1 = new Point(1, 2);
p1.a = 5;
p1.b = 6;

var p2 = new Point(3, 4);
p2.b = 7;
p2.a = 8;
```

Now, you will think that P1 and P2 will use the same hidden and class conversion. However, this is not the case. For "P1", add the attribute "a" and then add the attribute "B". For "P2", add the attribute "B" and then "a". In this way, due to different conversion paths, "P1" and "P2" ultimately use different hidden classes. In this case, a better way is to initialize dynamic attributes in the same order to facilitate the reuse of hidden classes.

######

V8 uses another technique that optimizes dynamic type language called in -the -in -law cache. The inner joint cavity depends on the observation of repeated calls of the same method on the same type of object. Here is a in-depth [article] (https://github.com/sq/jsil/wiki/optimizing-dynamic-javaScript-with-inline-Caches).

We will be exposed to the general concept of the inner linked cache (in case you do not have time to read the in -depth understanding of the in -depth understanding of the in -laws).

How does it work? V8 will maintain a cache of the object type that is introduced into the most recent call method, and then uses this information to assume that this object type will be transmitted into this method at some time. If the V8 can well predict the type of object that is about to be introduced, it can bypass the process of finding how to access the object attribute, and use it to use the stored information from the storage objects from the previous query.

So how is the concept of the hidden class connected with the internal cache? Whenever a specified object call method, the V8 engine has to perform the operation of the hidden class of the search object to obtain the displacement of the designated attribute. After the successful call for the same method of the same hidden class, the V8 ignores the search of the hidden class and simply adds the displacement of the attribute to the object pointer itself. After all, all the calls of this method, the V8 engine assumes that the hidden class has not changed, and then use the displacement found before to jump to the memory address of the specified attribute. This greatly improves the operating speed of the code.

Memory cache is why the same type of object sharing hidden class is so important. When you create two objects of the same type and use different hidden classes (as the previous examples are done), the V8 will not be able to use memory cache, because even if the two objects of the same type are Their attributes assigned different displacements.

! [] (./ assets/1_ihfi6mq-ykqvo51j-p0w.png)

_These two objects are basically the same, but the order of creating "a" and "b" is different._

## Compile as a machine code

Once the Hydrogen chart is optimized, Crankshaft will reduce it to a lower -level display called Lithium. Most Lithium implementation depends on a specific architecture. The distribution of the register occurs on this layer.

Finally, Lithium is compiled as a machine code. After that, other things called OSR happened: the current stack replacement. Before starting to compile and optimize an obvious time -consuming method, it is very likely to run it in the past. V8 will not forget the slowly execution of the code to use the optimized version code again. Instead, it will convert all the context (stack, register) so that it can be switched to the optimized version code during the execution process. This is a complicated task. What you just need to remember is that in other optimization processes, the V8 will initialize the inner code. V8 is not the only engine with this ability.

Here is a security protection called reverse optimization to prevent it from the engine that does not happen when the engine assumes that it does not happen, which can be reversed and the code is reversed into an unbound code.

## garbage recycling

V8 uses the traditional division mark-clearing technology to clean up the old code to generate garbage recovery. The label phase will stop the operation of JavaScript. In order to control the cost of garbage recycling and make the code execution more stable, the V8 uses an incremental mark method: not traversing the entire memory dump, trying to indicate each possible object, it only traverses part of the heap, and then restarts the normal code execution. The next garbage recycling point will continue from a place where the previous piles are suspended. This will have a very short pause during the normal code execution process. As mentioned earlier, the clearing phase is treated by separate threads.

## Ignition and Turbofan

With the release of the V8 5.9 version earlier in 2017, it brought a new execution channel. The new pipeline brings greater performance improvement and prominently saving memory for the reality JavaScript program.

The new execution pipeline is built on the new V8 interpreter IGNITION and V8's latest optimized compiler Turbofan.

You can check the [blog post] (https://v8project.blogspot.bg/2017/05/launching-iGn-Turbofan.html) of the V8 group.

Since the release of the V8 5.9 version, Full-CodeGen and Crankshaft (V8 since use from 2010) is no longer used to run JavaScript, because the V8 group is working hard to keep up with the new JavaScript language function and optimize these functions.

This means that the entire V8 will be more streamlined and more maintained in the next V8.

! [] (./ assets/0_pohqkvj9pstprlov.png)

_Webpage and Node.js Benchmarks Raise_

These improvements are just the beginning. The new Ignition and Turbofan pipelines are prepared for future optimization. It will improve the performance of JavaScript and reduce the v8 traces in Chrome and Node.js in the next few years.

Finally, there are some more optimized, better JavaScript code. You can easily summarize from the above content. However, for the sake of convenience, there is a summary:

## How to write optimized JavaScript code

- Sequence of object attributes: always instantiated object attributes in the same order, so that hidden classes and subsequent optimization code can be shared.
- Dynamic attributes: After instantiation, adding attributes to objects will cause any method to be optimized before hidden class optimizations. Instead, all the attributes of the object in the object constructor.
- Method: The code that repeats the same method will be faster than the code that runs differently (thanks to the internal collapse).
- Number: Avoid the use key is not a sparse number column of increasing numbers. The sparse number column does not include a hash table within it. Access elements in the column will be more time -consuming. Similarly, try to avoid pre -distribution large arrays. It is best to increase with use. Finally, do not delete the elements in the number column. This will make the keys thinner.
- Tag value: V8 uses 32 bits to represent objects and numbers. It uses one bit to distinguish the object (flag = 1) or integer (flag = 0) is called SMI (small integer), and the reason is that the small integer is because it is 31 digits. After that, if a value is larger than 31 bits, the V8 will be packed in the number, transform it into a floating point number and create a new object to store this number. Try as much as possible to use 31 digits to avoid the fashion consumption operation of the JS object.
