# CSS Padding
- **Objective:** learn how to adjust the padding area of an element using CSS.

### CSS Padding  Properties
The CSS padding properties allow you to set the spacing between the content of an element and its border (or the edge of the element's box, if it has no defined border).

The padding is affected by the element's `background-color`.

### Defining Padding for Individual Sides
You can specify the paddings for the individual sides of an element such as top, right, bottom, and left sides using the CSS `padding-top`, `padding-right`, `padding-bottom`, and the `padding-left` properties, respectively.

`Example`
```css
h1 {
    padding-top: 50px;
    padding-bottom: 100px;
}
p {
    padding-left: 75px;
    padding-right: 75px;
}
```
The padding properties can be specified using the following values.
* _length_ - specifies a padding in px, em, rem, pt, cm, etc.
* _%_ - specifies a padding in percentage (%) of the width of the containing element.
* _inherit_ - specifies that the padding should be inherited from the parent element.
---
### The Padding Shorthand Property
The padding property is a shorthand property to avoid setting padding of each side separately, i.e., `padding-top`, `padding-right`, `padding-bottom` and `padding-left`.

```css
h1 {
    padding: 50px; /* apply to all four sides */
}
p {
    padding: 25px 75px; /* vertical | horizontal */
}
div {
    padding: 25px 50px 75px; /* top | horizontal | bottom */
}
pre {
    padding: 25px 50px 75px 100px; /* top | right | bottom | left */
}
```
This shorthand notation can take one, two, three, or four whitespace separated values.

* If one value is specified, it is applied to **all four sides.**
* If two values are specified, the first value is applied to the **top and bottom** side, and the second value is applied to the **right and left** side of the element's box.
* If three values are specified, the first value is applied to the **top**, second value is applied to **right and left** side, and the last value is applied to the **bottom**.
* If four values are specified, they are applied to the **top**, **right**, **bottom** and the **left** side of the element's box respectively in the specified order.
---
### Effect of Padding and Border on Layout
When creating web page layouts, adding a padding or border to the elements sometimes produce unexpected result, because padding and border is added to the width and height of the box generated by the element.

`Example`
```css
div {
    width: 100%;
    padding: 25px;
}
```
To prevent padding and border from changing element's box width and height, you can use the CSS `box-sizing` property.

`Example`
```css
div {
    width: 100%;
    padding: 25px;
    box-sizing: border-box;
}
```
---
